# Geoss

Geoss is a world full of mystery and opportunity, watched over by many deities. The ranks of the deities have grown slowly over the centuries. Order is kept by the twelve oldest and most powerful of the deities, known as prime deities. Collectively they are referred to as the Prime Pantheon. The remaining gods and goddesses each swear their fealty to a single member of the prime pantheon. These subservient divines are known as lesser deities or demigods. While the origin of prime deities predates recorded history, most of the lesser deities are mortals who ascended to godhood. This occurs when a mortal receives genuine, sincere worship from another mortal. The strength of the worshiper's belief causes the recipient of the worship to transcend into divinity. The more active worshippers a demigod has, the more powerful they become. Theoretically, a demigod could become a prime deity with enough worshippers.

Each of Geoss' many continents is home to unique cultures and civilizations. Vast seas and dangerous creatures have stood in the way of travel between continents, so the world remains largely unmapped and unexplored. However, man's drive to innovate is unrelenting. With the dangers of geographical exploration seemingly insurmountable, people turned their efforts to other fields.

The unfettered ambitions of Geoss' citizens has not been without consequence. Many a great innovator has thrown caution aside in a reckless bid for more wealth or power. Over the centuries, careless experiments by such individuals has chipped away at the very fabric of reality. All over Geoss, rifts to other universes open for a few seconds at a time. Sometimes something or someone is pulled through these rifts into other universes, while other times something or someone is pushed through into Geoss. As more damage is done to the universe, more and larger rifts begin to appear.

Recently, strange new technology has emerged through the rifts in the form of enchanted magic crystals. These allow a vessel to sail through the air with no need for wings or wind. People soon realized that seafaring vessels were particularly well suited for use with the crystals, resulting in the skies becoming flooded with retrofitted galleons and warships. Powerful entities vie for air superiority, but it is Cross, the self-declared pirate emperor, who now dominates the skies of Geoss.